Code-Management/Git/main.md, before:

# Git Commands Guide

## Getting Started with Git

### 1. Installing Git

Before you begin, ensure Git is installed on your machine. You can download it from [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com/).

### 2. Check Git Installation

To verify that Git is installed, run:

```bash
git --version
```

### 3. Configure Git User Information

Set up your name and email address, which will be used for your commits:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
```

## Configuring Git to Use a Custom SSH Key

If you need to use a specific SSH key for your Git operations, you can configure Git as follows:

```bash
git config --add --local core.sshCommand 'ssh -i <PATH_TO_SSH_KEY>'
```

For Clone With Custom SSH Key Use:
```bash
git -c core.sshCommand="ssh -i <key-path>" clone host:repo 
```


*Replace `<PATH_TO_SSH_KEY>` with the actual path to your SSH key file.*

## Creating and Managing a Local Git Repository

### 1. Initialize a Git Repository

Start by creating a new Git repository in your local project directory:

```bash
git init -b main
```

*The `-b main` flag sets the default branch name to "main".*

### 2. Add Files and Commit Changes

Next, stage all your files and create your initial commit:

```bash
git add -A
git commit -m "Initial Commit"
```

*The `git add -A` command stages all changes, while the `git commit` command records those changes with a descriptive message.*

### 3. Connect to a Remote Repository

Now, link your local repository to a remote GitHub repository:

```bash
git remote add origin <Repo-Link>
```

*Replace `<Repo-Link>` with the URL of your GitHub repository.*

### 4. Push Changes to GitHub

Finally, push your initial commit to the remote repository:

```bash
git push origin main
```

## Common Git Commands for Beginners

### 1. Check the Status of Your Repository

To see which changes are staged, unstaged, or untracked:

```bash
git status
```

### 2. View Commit History

To view the commit history of your repository:

```bash
git log
```
show diffrent on each commit 
```bash
git log -p 
```
show last 3 commit 
```bash
git log -3
```

*You can press `q` to exit the log view.*

### 3. Viewing Changes

To see changes made to files before staging them:

```bash
git diff
```

```bash
git diff --staged
```

### 4. Staging Individual Files

If you want to stage specific files instead of all changes:

```bash
git add <filename>
```

*Replace `<filename>` with the name of the file you wish to stage.*

### 5. Undoing Changes

To unstage a file that you added by mistake:

```bash
git reset <filename>
```

To discard changes in a file and revert it to the last committed state:

```bash
git checkout -- <filename>
```

### 6. Cloning a Repository

If you want to create a copy of an existing remote repository:

```bash
git clone <Repo-Link>
```

*Replace `<Repo-Link>` with the URL of the repository you want to clone.*

### 7. Creating a New Branch

To create a new branch for development:

```bash
git checkout -b <branch-name>
```

*Replace `<branch-name>` with your desired branch name.*

### 8. Merging Branches

To merge changes from another branch into your current branch:

```bash
git merge <branch-name>
```

rename file 
```bash
git mv
```

remove file 
```bash
git rm
```

change default editor
```bash
git config --global code.editor "vim"
```

edit last commit message
```bash
git commit --amend
```

show changes in commit 
```bash
git show <commit-id>
```

```bash
git revert HEAD
```

```bash
git revert <commit-id>
```
show all branches
```bash
git branch
```
show all branches but with datails
```bash
git branch -v
```
delete target branch
```bash
git branch -d <branch-name>
```
swith on target branch
```bash
git checkout <branch-name>
```
create branch and switch on it
```bash
git checkout -b <branch-name>
```

```bash
git merge <target-branch>
```
on merge with have 2 method:

fast forward: if we are on latest on master and create branch and set some change and merge it ( master not changed ) commit on out branch fast come on head master

3way:if we are on latest on master and create branch and set some change and merge it but this time our master got some change if our brnach dont have conflict with master its merge but with new commit

Commit message:

git doc : added some git remote command

Code-Management/Git/main.md, after:

# Git Commands Guide

## Getting Started with Git

### 1. Installing Git

Before you begin, ensure Git is installed on your machine. You can download it from [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com/).

### 2. Check Git Installation

To verify that Git is installed, run:

```bash
git --version
```

### 3. Configure Git User Information

Set up your name and email address, which will be used for your commits:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
```

## Configuring Git to Use a Custom SSH Key

If you need to use a specific SSH key for your Git operations, you can configure Git as follows:

```bash
git config --add --local core.sshCommand 'ssh -i <PATH_TO_SSH_KEY>'
```

For Clone With Custom SSH Key Use:
```bash
git -c core.sshCommand="ssh -i <key-path>" clone host:repo 
```


*Replace `<PATH_TO_SSH_KEY>` with the actual path to your SSH key file.*

## Creating and Managing a Local Git Repository

### 1. Initialize a Git Repository

Start by creating a new Git repository in your local project directory:

```bash
git init -b main
```

*The `-b main` flag sets the default branch name to "main".*

### 2. Add Files and Commit Changes

Next, stage all your files and create your initial commit:

```bash
git add -A
git commit -m "Initial Commit"
```

*The `git add -A` command stages all changes, while the `git commit` command records those changes with a descriptive message.*

### 3. Connect to a Remote Repository

Now, link your local repository to a remote GitHub repository:

```bash
git remote add origin <Repo-Link>
```

*Replace `<Repo-Link>` with the URL of your GitHub repository.*

### 4. Push Changes to GitHub

Finally, push your initial commit to the remote repository:

```bash
git push origin main
```

## Common Git Commands for Beginners

### 1. Check the Status of Your Repository

To see which changes are staged, unstaged, or untracked:

```bash
git status
```

### 2. View Commit History

To view the commit history of your repository:

```bash
git log
```
show diffrent on each commit 
```bash
git log -p 
```
show last 3 commit 
```bash
git log -3
```

```bash
git log --graph
```

```bash
git log --oneline
```

*You can press `q` to exit the log view.*

### 3. Viewing Changes

To see changes made to files before staging them:

```bash
git diff
```

```bash
git diff --staged
```

### 4. Staging Individual Files

If you want to stage specific files instead of all changes:

```bash
git add <filename>
```

*Replace `<filename>` with the name of the file you wish to stage.*

### 5. Undoing Changes

To unstage a file that you added by mistake:

```bash
git reset <filename>
```

To discard changes in a file and revert it to the last committed state:

```bash
git checkout -- <filename>
```

### 6. Cloning a Repository

If you want to create a copy of an existing remote repository:

```bash
git clone <Repo-Link>
```

*Replace `<Repo-Link>` with the URL of the repository you want to clone.*

### 7. Creating a New Branch

To create a new branch for development:

```bash
git checkout -b <branch-name>
```

*Replace `<branch-name>` with your desired branch name.*

### 8. Merging Branches

To merge changes from another branch into your current branch:

```bash
git merge <branch-name>
```

rename file 
```bash
git mv
```

remove file 
```bash
git rm
```

change default editor
```bash
git config --global code.editor "vim"
```

edit last commit message
```bash
git commit --amend
```

show changes in commit 
```bash
git show <commit-id>
```

```bash
git revert HEAD
```

```bash
git revert <commit-id>
```
show all branches
```bash
git branch
```
show all branches but with datails
```bash
git branch -v
```
delete target branch
```bash
git branch -d <branch-name>
```
swith on target branch
```bash
git checkout <branch-name>
```
create branch and switch on it
```bash
git checkout -b <branch-name>
```

```bash
git merge <target-branch>
```
on merge with have 2 method:

fast forward: if we are on latest on master and create branch and set some change and merge it ( master not changed ) commit on out branch fast come on head master

Three-way: if we are on latest on master and create branch and set some change and merge it but this time our master got some change if our brnach dont have conflict with master its merge but with new commit 

show remotes (just name)
```bash
git remote 
```
show remotes with full information
```bash
git remote -v 
```

```bash
git remote show origin
```
get changes from default remote ( just get what file changed not applyed)
```bash
git fetch 
```
get changes from all remote ( just get what file changed not applyed)
```bash
git fetch --all
```
